This is a federated learning simulator which can be used for binary prediction. In order to use this simulator, you must have 4 CSV files. 2 CSV files must contain your data without any row names, and 2 CSV files must contain your results without any row names. When inputting your desired architecture, note that this program will infer your input layer from the data you provide. For that reason, you only need to provide layers after the input layer. Finally, you should choose the number of global (federated) iterations you would like to run, and the number of local iterations per global iteration. Once you have uploaded your data and inputted the required architecture and iteration counts, the program will run for a total of (global iterations x local iterations) epochs. Please be patient after clicking run; this application initializes and trains multiple neural networks, and can take up to 10 minutes to run.

The program outputs 4 graphs. 2 of these graphs demonstrate the loss after each local iteration on each client. As a result, they will show the loss for (global iterations x local iterations) epochs. A decreasing loss on these graphs indicate that the model is training locally. The other 2 graphs will demonstrate the federated loss after each global iteration. These will show loss of the overall model after the weights from each local model are averaged. A decreasing loss on these graphs indicate that the federated model indeed improves after the weights from the locally trained models are averaged.
